# CIS1051FinalProject

Video URL: 

Code citation: https://towardsdatascience.com/manage-your-money-with-python-707579202203

Challenges: 
- Figuring out how to download all of the transaction csv files from my various accounts. I had originally planned to use an app that would merge them all for me and then I could download the data from there, but I was not able to find a free app that could do that so I had to do it myself. This meant that I had to download all of the files, which each had different columns and titles. My initial solution was to go through by hand and manually copy and paste the relevant columns into a new csv file that the program would read. I was not satisfied with this solution because I wanted it to be automated, so I went back to the code and had it merge everything together. This meant that I had to figure out how to get all the files' columns to match so that I could merge them together. I was able to figure this out by removing certain columns (like withdrawals, balance, etc) from each file. I then had to rename some of them, like Venmo, which had the description labelled as a note. Then I had to figure out how to merge them all and get them to sort by date in a new csv file. I actually really like this solution because it gives me another file that has all of the data in Excel (which I am very comforatble with in sorting and making graphs if needed). 
- Figuring out how to get the dates to be read as dates and then having them only list the month and year so it doesn't track my daily expenses. I found this to be pretty easy with a quick Google search for the spend, reserve, growth, and Discover accounts. However, the Venmo transactions had dates listed in the YYYY-MM-DDTHH-MM-SS format. I tried to get the code to go from that format to what everything else was in, but I could not figure out how to do that with pandas and datetime because I still don't fully understand how all of that stuff works. To get around this problem, I just retyped the dates to MM/DD/YYYY format in the original csv file. This is not the best solution because it means that everytime I download the csv file from Venmo I would need to essentially prep the file for the code by handtyping the dates. I would eventually like to fix this, but I did not have time.
- Recategorizing the different transactions was not too difficult once I understood the formatting of the lines from the original article. The categorization is not perfect (my friends and I like to write stupid notes on our Venmo transaction notes) but it is pretty accurate and better than typing everything in by hand (which is what my current system is). 
- I did use the code from the article to make the different charts, so that was not too bad because I just had to change the different column titles so there were no errors (I got very good at reading error messages at this point).
- Creating the part that tracks my Discover credit cashback rewards was not too bad once I figured out how to logic my way through it. 
- I was originally going to create a dashboard to display everything like the article does, but I had a hard time getting jupyter_dash to run on my laptop and I realized that I didn't need the dashboard. I am satisfied with the Excel and charts that are created.

Learned:
- I learned a lot about pandas, which is really useful because data analysis is likely what I would use this kind of stuff for in the future.
- I also learned how to read error messages and to use stack overflow and other resources better to get answers to smaller questions about formatting and things like that. 

Overall, I was really happy with the final product and I actually really surprised myself with the final product. I did not think I was capable of creating something like this and I am really proud of myself for what I was able to accomplish and the challenges I overcame given the amount of time I had to do this project.
